# TypeScript Tutorial
[PDF Version](../typescript/typescript_pdf_version.md)
[Quick Guide](../typescript/typescript_quick_guide.md)
[Resources](../typescript/typescript_useful_resources.md)
[Discussion](../typescript/typescript_discussion.md)

TypeScript lets you write JavaScript the way you really want to. TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript. TypeScript is pure object oriented with classes, interfaces and statically typed like C# or Java. The popular JavaScript framework **Angular 2.0** is written in TypeScript. Mastering TypeScript can help programmers to write object-oriented programs and have them compiled to JavaScript, both on server side and client side.

# Audience
Programmers coming from Object Oriented world will find it easy to use TypeScript. With the knowledge of TypeScript, they can build web applications much faster, as TypeScript has good tooling support.

# Prerequisites
As a reader of this tutorial, you should have a good understanding of OOP concepts and basic JavaScript, to make the most of this tutorial.

# Compile/Execute TypeScript Programs
For most of the examples given in this tutorial you will find **Try it** option, so just make use of it and enjoy your learning.

Try following example using **Try it** option available at the top right corner of the below sample code box:

```
var message:string = "Hello World" 
console.log(message)
```
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.

```
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var message = "Hello World";
console.log(message);
```

[Previous Page](../typescript/index.md) [Next Page](../typescript/typescript_overview.md) 
